# Chess-Game (Functionality) 
- I begin by asking the user for their name (I save their name in the XML file), expertise level (I check if it’s a valid level) and save their expertise level in the XML file. Then, I greet them by asking them if they would like to start a new game (if they pick new game, it is saved in the XML file) or saved game (in addition to the assignment requirements, I added GUI). Once they pick either game, the user then gets to see the GUI that I added of which it is a chessboard. I added the pieces into an array list collection and I used the for-each loop (to go through the list and print out the pieces). After that I would then ask the user what piece do they want (I also check if it’s a valid piece), then I would ask for the color of the piece as well (I also check if it’s a valid color). I then created some linked lists with the types of character and integer for x and y. Which I would then add the characters and integers to x and y into the linked lists. I would then create an iterator for iterating y from which I used a while loop, while y has a next one and then I printed each y out vertically for like a chessboard (ASCII). Then, I created an iterator for iterating x from which I iterated each x while it has a next one, and then printed it out horizontally. Then, I have a switch type depending on the user decisions on the type and color of the piece. Each piece is using a strategy pattern from where I am encapsulating each one (e.g., rook at initial (a)(6) to final (a)(8)) and can be interchangeable. Then, I created a hash map for each piece with the types of <String, Character> for X and <String, Integer> for Y. I would then put the strings and characters into X for the hash map, and the strings and integers into Y for the hash map. Then, I print each one out. I then aggregate a stream operation with a for-each, for determining if it is successful on each piece. Then, I ask the user if they would want to save the game (if yes, the game is saved in the XML file using the piece and color). Then, I would ask the user if they would want to continue (while the decision is yes, the game will continue). If the user doesn’t want to continue, I would then thank the user for playing and then tell the user to come again at another time (then the game closes). At the end I tested the (queen, knight, pawn, and king). I executed each one by initializing the (color, x, y), created a method based on their movements (using strategy pattern) for each piece, and then I printed the test’s out.
